---
layout: post
title: Colors
image: /images/2016-04-21/MicroMirrorTestsetup.JPG
category: general
tags: blog
---
{% assign image_link ="/images/2016-04-30/" %}


>"The difference between an amateur and professional scientist is documentation." - Isaac Chuang

This is easily the most impact-full sentence Ike has ever said to me. Its something that I've really taken to heart during my graduate career. so colors, Why are there so many... 

I'd like to put together a few templates for matplotlib to easily produce reasonably pretty plots for different formats, this blog, lab blog, general ipython notebooks, publications etc. The largest difference between the different formats is color scheme and this is something that a lot of people have had a lot to say on. 

This isn't something I'm surprised by, that happened about 2-3 years ago when I attended a 'Improving presentation skills in physics' talk at Aarhus university. 

Where there was quiet a lot of controversy amongst the crowd and presenter on most formatting options, especially those that tend to lean/clean plots. But I think there was general agreement that default color schemes and those most commonly used in publications are pretty bad. This seemed to be due to two conflicting goals when using a particular color palette, 1. Being able to visual identify absolute differences between regions of a plot and 2. being able to easily distinguish between adjacent colors. 1. seems to be ignored the most, with people relying on an adjacent legend to help people decipher the result. which usually leads people to focus on 2 by selecting a range of very distinct colors and cycling through them at random.

<span><s>If you have a chance</s> you need to read this series of blog posts describing the importance and subtleties in selecting meaningful color schemes for data representation. </span>

+ <a href="http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/blogs/elegantfigures/2013/08/05/subtleties-of-color-part-1-of-6/"> subtleties of color part 1</a>
+ <a href="http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/blogs/elegantfigures/2013/08/06/subtleties-of-color-part-2-of-6/"> subtleties of color part 2</a>
+ <a href="http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/blogs/elegantfigures/2013/08/12/subtleties-of-color-part-3-of-6/"> subtleties of color part 3</a>
+ <a href="http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/blogs/elegantfigures/2013/08/19/subtleties-of-color-connecting-color-to-meaning/"> subtleties of color part 4</a>
+ <a href="http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/blogs/elegantfigures/2013/08/28/subtleties-of-color-part-5-of-6/"> subtleties of color part 5</a>
+ <a href="http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/blogs/elegantfigures/2013/09/10/subtleties-of-color-part-6-of-6/"> subtleties of color part 6</a>


Even if your not going to make your own color palette, this will make you more aware of how your data will look to an outside audience. This is probably one of the biggest problems in data visualization, having spent months are several years collecting data and trying to understand that data by the time you write a publication you have a lot of bias and implicit assumptions in what your data is actually showing. 




<h2> Matplotlib style files </h2>

Anyway... more on point how do I create a pretty plot layout in a reusable fashion?

This seems to be a bit of a mess in matplotlib, there is a pretty awesome support for style files, .mplstyle which contain a list of rcParams, which will override the default Matplotlibrc file in the current instance. 

The messiness comes in because the implementation of these parameters doesn't seem to be complete. For instance, the first issue I ran into was in creating a bit of a buffer around my plotted data so that lines are not clipped at the edge of the viewport. The obvious solution to this is to use the axes.xmargin / ymargin and increase this above zero. The parameters work as intended for larger values. e.g. 1, adds a full plot range on either side of the data so that the viewport is now 3x the original range. However, when decreasing this value you can see that the behavior is actually limited to step sizes of major ticks. so once you decrease bellow 1/5 (the default number of major ticks) the margin stops decreasing until you set zero. The correct (and expected) behavior can be implemented using the pyplot.margins(XX) funciton. Where margins can be adjusted continuously. 

I would of liked to have had just one style file to import before generating any plot. But instead I'll need to wrap pyplot to call a few formatting subroutines. 

For reference here is an example of the fivethirtyeight plot style.

{% highlight python linenos %}

#Author: Cameron Davidson-Pilon, replicated styles from FiveThirtyEight.com
# See https://www.dataorigami.net/blogs/fivethirtyeight-mpl

lines.linewidth: 4
lines.solid_capstyle: butt

legend.fancybox: true

axes.color_cycle: 30a2da, fc4f30, e5ae38, 6d904f, 8b8b8b
axes.facecolor: f0f0f0
axes.labelsize: large
axes.axisbelow: true
axes.grid: true
axes.edgecolor: f0f0f0
axes.linewidth: 3.0
axes.titlesize: x-large

patch.edgecolor: f0f0f0
patch.linewidth: 0.5

svg.fonttype: path

grid.linestyle: -
grid.linewidth: 1.0
grid.color: cbcbcb

xtick.major.size: 0
xtick.minor.size: 0
ytick.major.size: 0
ytick.minor.size: 0

font.size:14.0

savefig.edgecolor: f0f0f0
savefig.facecolor: f0f0f0

figure.subplot.left: 0.08
figure.subplot.right: 0.95 
figure.subplot.bottom: 0.07
figure.facecolor: f0f0f0

{% endhighlight %}


All of the available settings can be found on <a href="http://matplotlib.org/users/customizing.html">matplotlibs custumization page</a>


{% include 2016-04-30/testingstyling.html %}
